---
layout: post
title: Test
---

H264/HEVC VideoToolbox Encoding Parameters  

This note explains the parameters of FFmpeg's `h264_videotoolbox` and `hevc_videotoolbox` codec, focusing on VideoToolbox's hardware encoding capabilities on Apple silicon.  

Note that this note is drafted in October 2022 against an M1 MacBook. If any of the behaviours mentioned in this note has changed in future version of FFmpeg, VideoToolbox or on newer generation of Apple M series chips, feel free to open a discussion [here](https://github.com/Akatmks/akatmks.github.io/issues). Also, if you find any problems in this note, please let Akatsumekusa know by opening an issue [here](https://github.com/Akatmks/akatmks.github.io/issues). It will be greatly appreciated. Thank you very much.  

## Ratecontrol

VideoToolbox in FFmpeg supports both VBR (Variable Bitrate) mode and CQ (Constant Quality) mode.  

### b:v
*Accepts int64 value from 0 to I64_Max. Default: 200k.*  

Set the target bitrate for encoding in VBR mode.  
Akatsumekusa suggests a good starting point for 1080p video to be around 3000k to 10000k depending on the complexity of the video.  

### q:v
*Accepts float value from 0 to 100. Default: Not Set.*  

Set the target quality for encoding in CQ mode from 0 to 100. Higher numbers produce better quality.  
Setting this option will enable CQ mode and disable `-b:v` setting.  

Constant Quality in VideoToolbox is not optimal. It performs poorly on sections of video with blur effect or detailed texture. The quality of such sections drops far below the target quality, and there is currently no way to encourage the encoder to use more bitrate on these sections.  

Also, despite `-q:v` accept quality values from 0 to 100, it doesn't support that many levels of quality. As an example, values between 53.0 to 54.9 will yield the exact same result, so will values between 55.0 to 56.9 and 57.0 to 59.9.  

Apple describes quality value of 25 as low, 50 as normal, 75 as high and 100 as lossless. Akatsumekusa suggests a good starting point to be around 55 to 60.  

### alpha_quality
\[hevc_videotoolbox only\] *Accept double value from 0 to 1. Default: 0 or Not Set.*  

Set the target quality for alpha channel.  
Apple describes 0.0 as the lowest quality and 1.0 as nearly lossless quality.  

### maxrate
*Accepts int64 value from 0 to I64_Max. Default: 0 or Not Set.*  

Set the hard limit on bitrate in VBR and CQ mode.  

VideoToolbox [allows](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/videotoolbox/kvtcompressionpropertykey_dataratelimits) 0, 1 or 2 hard limits, each of which is described by a data size in bytes and a duration in seconds, requiring the total size of compressed data for any contiguous segment of set duration not exceeding the data size. Akatsumekusa didn't find parameters in FFmpeg that fully supports this function. If anyone does have an idea, please let Akatsumekusa know by opening a discussion [here](https://github.com/Akatmks/akatmks.github.io/issues).  

## Frame configuration

### g
*Accepts int value from INT_MIN to INT_MAX. Default: 12.*  

Set the interval between I-frames.  

Note that VideoToolbox does not support adaptive I-frame decision. It does [allow](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/videotoolbox/kvtencodeframeoptionkey_forcekeyframe) the user to decide frame by frame if an I-frame should be inserted. However, Akatsumekusa didn't find parameters in FFmpeg related to this function. If anyone does have an idea, please let Akatsumekusa know by opening a discussion [here](https://github.com/Akatmks/akatmks.github.io/issues).  

### bf
*Accepts 0 or 1. Default: 0.*  

Set this to 1 to allow 1 consecutive B-frame, or 0 to disable B-frames.  

A FFmpeg commit [suggests](https://git.ffmpeg.org/gitweb/ffmpeg.git/commit/efece4442f3f583f7d04f98ef5168dfd08eaca5c) that `-b-pyramid` is also supported on hevc_videotoolbox. However, Akatsumekusa failed to enable this options on a Homebrew installation of FFmpeg 5.1.2.  

### coder
\[h264_videotoolbox only\] *Accepts cavlc or vlc as well as cabac or bac. Default: Not Set or cabac.*  

Set stream compression method.  

## Output

### profile:v
\[h264_videotoolbox\] *Supports baseline, main and high.*  
\[hevc_videotoolbox\] *Supports main and main10.*  

Set profile.  

### level
\[h264_videotoolbox only\] *Supports 1.3, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 5.0, 5.1 and 5.2.*  

Set h264 level.  

### pix_fmt
\[h264_videotoolbox\] *Supports yuv420p, nv12 and videotoolbox_vld.*  
\[hevc_videotoolbox\] *Supports yuv420p, nv12, p010le, bgra and videotoolbox_vld.*  

Set pixel format.  

### color_primaries
*Supports bt709, bt470m, bt470bg, smpte170m, smpte240m, film, bt2020, smpte428, smpte428_1, smpte431, smpte432 and jedec-p22.*  

Set colour primaries.  

### color_trc
*Supports bt709, gamma22, gamma28, smpte170m, smpte240m, linear, log, log100, log_sqrt, log316, iec61966_2_4, iec61966-2-4, bt1361, bt1361, iec61966_2_1, iec61966-2-1, bt2020_10, bt2020_10bit, bt2020_12, bt2020_12bit, smpte2084, smpte428, smpte428_1 and arib-std-b67.*  

Set transfer function, aka transformation characteristics.  

### colorspace
*Supports bt709, rgb, fcc, bt470bg, smpte170m, smpte240m, ycocg, bt2020nc, bt2020_ncl, bt2020c, bt2020_cl, smpte2085, chroma-derived-nc, chroma-derived-c, ictcp.*  

Set conversion matrix.  

### color_range
*Supports tv, mpeg, pc and jpeg.*  

Set signal range.  

### frame_before
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: false.*  

Set this value to true if frames compressed in a separate session will be concatenated before the beginning of the current session. Set this value to false if the current session is a standalone session, or if this session will encode the first segment of a multi-segment compression.  

### frame_after
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: false.*  

Set this value to true if frames compressed in a separate session will be concatenated following the end of the current session. Set this value to false if the current session is a standalone session, or if this session will encode the last segment of a multi-segment compression.  

## Miscellaneous

### allow_sw
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: false.*  

Allow software encoding.  
In Akatsumekusa's test, VideoToolbox didn't use software encoding when encoding a 1080p video on M1 with this value set to true.  

Also, note that information in this page focuses on hardware encoding capacities of VideoToolbox while ignoring its software encoding.  

### require_sw
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: false.*  

Force software encoding.  

### realtime
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: false.*  

Hint that encoding should happen in realtime if not faster.  

### prio_speed
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: Auto.*  

Prioritise encoding speed over efficiency.  
In Akatsumekusa's test, VideoToolbox didn't trade speed for efficiency when encoding a 1080p video on M1 with this value set to true.  

### a53cc
*Accepts boolean value, either true or false. Default: true.*  

Add A53 Closed Captions if they are available.  
